Okay, let's go back to where we were. I guess if I jog
my memory, I could find a couple more, but two
things I can tell you that you might not hear very
often. One was when we had the search to replace
Hubert.
The central administration of Texas A&M, and I
mean from the president on down, were absolutely
amazed by the quality of that we had who were
interested in the deanship of Texas A&M. We had the
former dean at Ohio State, which was then ranked
number two in College of Education nationwide.
And he was one of the grand architects of that who
was interested. We had a couple of other people who
were really premier researchers. One, the
president of the International Reading Society.
But the four finalists that we brought to the table
for that, impressed the administration. Were you
on that committee? Yes. I'd even go so far that they
suggested there wasn't another college then at
Texas A&M that could get people from those
prestigious universities to apply. They were
just immensely impressed with the people we had.
And it did a lot to help transform the image of the
college. Every college is trying to transform its
image in a more positive way. Was there one thing
that put Corrigan above these? Since they were all
such, what finally leaned the committee or the
search or whoever towards Corrigan? What was it
about him that stood out above these other
fantastics? I would say it's a very open style. It
just, it was immediately apparent when you met
Corrigan, any context in that search, whether it
was in the college or over at the president's
office, just a real gregarious and amicable and
friendly, friendly person. The other bit, and
more important, is that what Corrigan did was give
a lecture. And that lecture centered on equity.
For administration people, there are three big
things that we study. Effectiveness,
efficiency, and equity. In fact, the whole study
of administration might be geared around those
three anchors. Corrigan gave a very clear message
when he gave his lecture, and it was delivered over
in the small theater in Rudder, that he was very
much interested in equity, very much interested
in students' rights. very interested in these
types of policy issues being central in the
activities, not only research, but research,
teaching, and service activities of the college.
If he were to be a dean, that would be a concern. That
rallied, I'd say, 30 of the premier folks in the
college to start lobbying the entire
search committee. topped over all the way across
the table. Once he came to campus, he was the first
choice. What about Jim McNamara's contribution?
How can we summarize that? And I know you're a long
ways from reaching your peak because you keep...
I'm sure you want to wrap this up, but I want to tell
you this one other, because it's a document you
need to look at. And it does have some really good
things. Second thing that really impressed...
The central administration and the teacher
education community at large, the national
teacher education community, were R ratings on
the NK study. I have that one.
As a matter of fact, three or four of the people who
were on the NK team tried to come to Texas A&M. John
Dillard is one of the members on the NK team who was
at Texas A&M. John came from Oklahoma State, the
Texas A&M. He was on the search committee. We got
accolades almost across the board, but the one
place where we got accolades that almost no other
institution got them... Now, this was on which
one? The 1970, which MCAT? The most recent MCAT,
the last MCAT we had. It would have to be since 1980,
so it's probably in 83 or 82. Yeah, somewhere
around there, in the early 80s. We got accolades on
the long-range planning and program evaluation
standard. That same year, both Purdue and
Alabama, which are two large universities, were
failed. And the statistics I looked at before we
had the review showed that almost no institutions
pick up accolades or highest marks. When they
looked at what we did... Are those in the report?
The marks are in the report itself? Yeah. Okay. We
picked up accolades on that standard. And one of
the reasons... Well, I wrote that standard. It's
Standard 6. You might want to look at that report.
It captures a lot of the inquiry activity. It
captures a lot of the things. One thing that put us
right over the top was that we did an international
telephone sample of our former graduates in the
College of Ed, 240 of them, 40 from each of the six
departments. And we asked our graduate students,
former graduate students, how can we improve
Texas A&M? And there are seven volumes in that. I
can tell you just this one thing. You'll see why
there's seven volumes. There were ten, we played
the twenty questions game. There would be ten
questions that would be common across all six
departments, and then there would be ten
questions that would be unique in each
department. So if you summed over any department,
they had ten evaluation and planning questions
which were unique to them, and they had ten that
related to them and to the college as well.
We involved over 120 members in the College of
Education doing that study. We had department
heads doing telephone calls.
Now, these are true, random samples of our
graduates since 1969, right up to 1982. And the
whole push of that survey was, we respect your
professional competence. Tell us how we can be
better. Tell us what we can do to maintain
continuing contacts with y'all. Where can I find
all that? I'll give you a setup. All right. Now, I
would say that that's probably one of my best
contributions to Texas A&M. And it was really a
turning point in just selling me on the
institution. I've always been sold on it. I'm up
beyond it. The dean underwrote that study. The
department heads cooperated. Seven students
taking advanced doctoral work with me designed
the entire architecture for that study. And it
involved working with 120 people. And then we
reported, yes, about half of those people are
faculty and about half are students. And when that
NK commission saw that study, it just put their
lights out. They had never seen anything like that
anywhere. Has there something come out of that
that has really made dramatic change in the
college? What was done with all that information,
and how was it utilized? I'm going to say there
isn't. And I think you're going to appreciate my
reason why. Administration,
it never links its success to a single thing, to a
whole conglomerate of things. A really cheap
analogy might be someone who's running for school
board and gets elected. And then they want to give
some advice to someone else. And they had yard
signs and brochures. Now, which one do you want to
give up? Well, they don't know what to give up. They
just know that when you take the yard signs and the
brochures together, they got them elected. I
would say that there were several things since
when Corrigan came that were all in that same
orbit, inquiry group activity, the increasing
quality in some of the enrollment, the new sense of
mission, the study, faculty members who were
becoming tenured and seasoned and now didn't have
to worry about individual efforts but could be
team players. They were mentoring younger
faculty. I would say all those things taken
collectively enhanced the college. And that all
the things were falling into place for us to make
some real quantum leaps. And I would say that both
Hubert and Corrigan are responsible with
different leadership styles, different pieces
of the pie. They're all responsible for creating
the advocacy and enthusiasm of our faculty. And is
there something, as you look into the future, say
the year 2000 and even beyond, where do you think
that's going to take us? What do you think will be
the ultimate What will we reap from all of this
leadership and so forth? Yeah. I'm worried about
where the college is going now. I think we're
not ready to take the big quantum leap it takes to do
research. I've alluded to that in some of my
comments. I think people are burned out in terms of
stretching themselves to be involved in other
efforts. And if the college is going to be really
somewhere in the year 2000, you must remember the
people that brought them. Now, a good example. For
years, Donna Norton has been, and I would say
she's, add her name to the premier list of
researchers in the college, if you can go back. And
I'll give you the echo. Add Donna Norton to the
list. Right. OK. Donna is now without the money
from the Meadows Foundation grant. And what do
they have her doing? teaching three courses. The
day that the grant's run out, people are back to
these. Now, that doesn't happen in all the
departments, but there's a really good example of
a researcher who made an enormous contribution
with her research on training low-achieving
minority students in reading. And literally took
the lowest 5% of the readers in Bryan and made
astronomical gains with them. And now what's she
doing? She's back teaching three courses.
They're giving her a lot more committee
assignments. Do you understand what I'm saying?
Sure. That's what I'm worried about in the
college. I'm worried that that's not there. What
would be the ideal would be for her to be able to get
funding from somewhere else? Is that what...
Well, I think it's like any other R&D effort in a
corporation. If someone's productive for four or
five years... They either need a sabbatical or
they need some sort of downtime where they can just
sort of reflect on that activity and sort of get
their battery run up again. Is there a sabbatical
program in place? I mean, do people get
sabbaticals and stuff? There's a sabbatical that
you can apply to for the university, but we don't
have that. A lot of our people don't want to leave
just now. They're here, and they're smart enough
to know that they want their kids to be in a single
school system all the way through, at least until
they get out of high school. If you look at our
demography, most of our faculty are there, so they
don't want to leave. But they need internal
relief, not a sabbatical. By internal relief, you
mean just time to... Yeah, some time to reflect.
They create their own monastic retreat and
reflect on what made their immediate past so
productive, so useful. What are its
implications? I don't see the college in a
reflective mode. I don't see it trying to reward
people. We've hit a plateau of success. I've heard
that word already twice today, that we are in a
plateau. Do you see your role within the college
changing at all in the near future? Will your focus
still be maintained where you are now? I guess I'd
answer the question by posing another question
and answering it. What would I like to be
remembered for in the next 10 years? If people
summed over my productivity, from 1987 to 1997,
I'd like to be remembered for being the grand
architect who put together the
School-University Research Collaborative. I
want to work on applied research. I want to work on
communicating and translating research
findings for practitioners and policymakers. I
don't want to be a theoretician. And the
School-University Collaborative provides
those opportunities to link the profession as
Corden would say. That's where I am. This has
really been wonderful. I totally appreciate your
time and your insights because they're
invaluable.